
Sept 9tf

NEW STUFF

Strategic resources and economy

Added trade options for most resources that can be mined. System is relatively simple. Each country that has tradeable strategic resource can
have two active trade deals that last one year each. AI will buy resources too, so player will have to realy hunt trade opportunities for more 
rare stuff (like Molybdenum for example). 
Each bought resource grants bonuses related to it. For example, if you buy tungsten, you will get Hard Attack bonus for the duration fo trade deal (if you have researched AT techs that is).
Trade deals with countries that you're at war with get automaticaly cancelled. 

Added new strategic resources: molybdenum, copper, zinc, manganese
Old ones got reworked. Now it's impossible to have strategic resources by simply being closesly alligned to country having them. You have to be allies, in faction or have a trade deal.
All new and some of the old ones got linked with various techs and modifiers. 
Also, not having some of them will trigger penalties, or prevent getting access to certain techs (jet techs without aluminium) or getting certain bonuses (air build speed without aluminium).

Now having huge army/air forces/navy/industry will cost money. After reaching certain number of brigades/units/IC you will get events asking
if you want to pay for extra salaries, maintenance etc. Those events will trigger every 3 months. Their initial cost is relatively low, but
it will go up if you keep expanding army/air/sea/IC. Values are set in a way that allows certain level of expansion without having to worry about
money spending. 
National Focus also costs money now, so keeping track of money is extremely important.


Strategic doctrines

Added 4 new doctrine tech trees. Deep Battle, Grand Battle Plan, Superior Firepower and Blitzkrieg. Each has around 15-17 new techs focusing on the unique aspects of 
each doctrine and mindset behind them. Doctrines are locked for major countries which means that, for example, ENG will start with 
Grand Battle Plan and other three doctrines will be locked. 
Each doctrine has it's own set of new combat tactics available only after researching techs. 
Similar thing with some bonuses. Few techs will trigger strategic effects instead of giving bonuses listed in tech tab. This is specified in tech descriptions.
The reason behind this is that some bonuses, like Defend Reinforcement Chance, can't be applied to techs. 

You can learn few techs from other doctrines, but there are only two ways of doing that.
First one is being allied or in faction with country that mastered different doctrine. You also need to be at war. 
Second one is combat experience. After bigger battles there's a chance of getting event granting certain level of, lets call it "Doctrine Experience". 
After gathering enough some techs will get unlocked. Not all, simply for keeping game balance in check. 


Units rebalance and "Tech Decay"

All units were rebalanced. By all I literaly mean all. Their base stats are roughly on "old" 1941/42 level with some tweaks and minor changes. 
During the game there will be events (hidden from player) that will lower stats of all units. This also affects air and naval doctrines (land are excluded).

What does that mean. Player's (and AI) task is to research techs and keep them up to date to prevent them from dropping below acceptable and useful levels. 
Pace of this decay was adjusted by calculating bonuses from techs for each year and adjusting them in a way that will make sure that if all techs are up to date,
unit will have same stats for the entire game. 
End result is that combat pace, casualties and general combat feel is the same no matter what year it is, altough as for now decay ends in 1950. 
So no more early, slow battles with barely any casualties and useless air forces vs late war meat grinders that claim thousands of casualties,
explode entire divisions and obliterate fleets or air units in 3 hours. 
As I mentioned earlier - this affects also air and naval doctrines. Those were greatly buffed (by hidden modifier) so the issue with early game 
stupid battles/bombings are gone.


Added Flagships/Command Ships

Only available as versions of BB and CV and picked unique ships. 
How does it work. Those ships have transport capability of 1. This allows them to carry unique HQ (new unit) spawned by Naval HQ (CoC) events. This HQ works same as any other HQ,
but has weight of 1, which makes it the only such unit that can be transported by those warships. And as an HQ it can be attached to OOB giving bonuses to all nearby units attached
to it. 


Models GFX by Tanchowder



Pavo ITA events ???
New loading screens

GAME BALANCE

Rebalanced speed bonuses and penalties for most units and all terrain types - penalties will be less severe now
Softness changes
Changed combat damage values - units should be more likely to deorg than shatter
Tweaked (aka nerfed) air units ranges and speeds to be closer to irl values
Rebalanced strategic bombers: better strat attack, slightly lower ic/days cost, lower mission efficiency 
buffed Fascist Militia speed a littel bit
Greatly reduced LS gain from occupied territories, historical factions and certain events and effects - mostly for GER
Reduced IC efficiency gain from techs
Increased IC efficiency penalties from difficulty settings
Rebalanced BC/BB/SHBB tech levels, max tech lvl, requirements and bonuses
Nerfed NAV a little bit
Tweaked GER economy events
DD are now dirt cheap
CVE are now screens
Tweaked reqruitment laws
Reduced Combined Arms bonuses from traits
Reduced supply consumption bonuses from traits
Lowered commanders skill lvl impact on combat 
Lowered xp_gain from traits
Reduced ART CA bonus
Increasec cost of all armored units
Buffed Semi-Mot INF speed
Lowered naval base build cost and time and increased it's resillience
Tweaked National Focuses - Health & Education now gives all buildings, not just one random category
Tweaked FRA military crisis

TECHS

Reworked doctrines - explained earlier
Added Heavy Armor Forging tech in Industry tech
Added techs for ship classes 
Added aditional requirements to few bomb techs 
Added transport weight increase to +STR techs
Split supplies production into three separate techs
Division HQ tech (CoC) can now be researched even at war
Changed max levels of training techs
CoC techs no longer require being at war


OTHER

Removed Battlecommanders event from the start of the game - now you have all of them by default
National Focus after 1936 now costs money
Added Greater East Asian Sphere of Co Prosperity strategic effect (explanation)
Added Flagships - BB and CV versions (add explanation)
Changed Norway training law
More accurate oil production in the Middle East - added things to Haifa, Ahvaz and Ad Dammam
Reduced starting AA in almost all provinces on the map
Reduced amount of ships that naval commander can lead without penalties
Buffed Research Center events
Reduced penalties from building roads, railrodas, ports and air bases
Added decisions for AI USA to nuke JAP conditions are met
Tons of localisation fixes
Reworked NKVD HQ - it has low org, but extremely high Morale/Org.Regain
Tweaked Mining effect
Tweaked 2-2-6 event chain
Konoe Fumimaro is now Paternal Autocrat 
Renamed JAP ship models to be in historical order
Jet Techs now require access to Aluminium
Getting bonuses from Tungsten requires researching AT techs
Lowered cost fo Channel Island occupation events
Tweaked scripted invasions
Tweaked Military College building
Tweaked Finanse Ministry effect
Tweaked AI JAP penalties
Lots of tweaks to Pacific War
Removed IC efficiency penalties from Desperate Reinforcements for AI
AI GER will now spawn event OOB while retreating only against player SOV
AI SOV will now research Rare Refining tech
Tweaked GER operations bonuses
Tweaked Winter War bonuses/Penalties
AI USA will build more motorized units
Tweaked BEF effects
Added Fall Weiss for AI GER
Increased VP in Belgium
AI GER will build more garrisons
Tweaked AI USA production
AI USA will now get garrisons on captured islands
Added XP to units in scripted invasions
Changed Toshiba effect
SIA annex will now happen historicaly
Tweaked HOL starting techs
Reworked FIN starting OOB
Added FIN reserve divisions events
Added shipyards to Caen and Brest
Added shipyard, IC and port to Elbing
Added port to Bizerte
Added small arms factory to Erfurt
Added LS to Hinterzarten
Added IC, metal, steel factory to Jesenice
GER won't get SLO units after annexing Czechoslovakia
NED will keep it's colonial units and navy after defeat (it used to be transferred to ENG)
Tweaked some ETH leaders
Tweaked Fermi penalty
Tweaked AI reinforcements decisions/events

LUA

Tweaked LUA files to make AI build slightly better divisions - no more slow brigades in fast divisions
AI will build more marines - more naval invasions in Europe and Pacific
AI will build less stuff that is less usefull like CVL for example
AI will build more Mechanized Inf. divisions
GER will build more submarines
SOV will build more INF and Mot/Mech Inf and less HARM divisions




BUGS

Fixed trait xp not being calculated properly
Fixed few JAP country flag names
Fixed few GER country flag names
Fixed 1 Leichte Brigade
Fixed few unique ships not being displayed proerly in combat 
Fixed few paths for scripted naval invasion
Fixed JAP unit names
Fixed starting model for JAP
Fixed few scripted invasions not actualy invading
Fixed USA/UK take Bruxelles events
Fixed 2nd Armored Cav Group spawn
Fixed Kleist not wanting to NOT retire
Fixed Kokoda Trail event
Fixed Luftwaffe reorg events
Fixed a bug that causes GER to suffer winter/rail penalties when being attacked by SOV
Fixed Middle Eastern Reserves bug for ENG
Fixed R-M triggers
Fixed SS REC.CAV not having CA group
Fixed ITA not being able to build LSS
Fixed 22ns MTN division HQ not being an HQ
Fixed some FRA BB's not being displayed properly on combat screen
Fixed MSS not being displayed properly on combat screen
Fixed SOV, ITA, GER leaders not being removed from SPA/SPR OOB after SCW
Fixed Vichy Crash - this required few tweaks to ITA events
